# Constructor

 - Constructors are used to initialize the data.

   ## Rules to Declare a Constructor:

   1 - Constructor name and class name must be same.

   2 - Constructor can not return the value.
   

   3 - Constructors can have the arguemnts( known as Parameterized Constructor).
   
   
   
   4 - Constructors can not have the arguemnts( known as 0 argument Constructor).


   Example:

   class Test{

      // 0 argument Constructor

      Test(){
 
        logics
       }

      // 1 argument Constructor

      Test(int num){

          logics
       }
   }

   If you dont give any Constructor, the compiler will generate the default constructor. The default constructor is generated by the compiler. It
   has 0 arguments with empty implementations. They are executed when the object is created.

   Example of Default Constructor:

   class Test{

      // Default constructor

      Test(){

        empty impl
       }
        void wish(){
            System.out.println("Good Morning");
       }

        public static void main(String[] args){
              Test t = new Test();
               t.wish();
         }
   }

   We can call local variables with in the method, constructor or blocks.

During object creation, initialize the data using Constructors. The data will go in the Constructor arguemnts. But the arguments are local variables. So, we assign the local data into the Instance variables. You can access the Instance variables with in the class.



- 'this' keyword, which is used inside the constructor, represents the current class.



  Note:

  1 . Constructors are used to initialize the data.

  2. Methods are used to write the logics of the application.
 
  3. Variables are used to store the data.
 
  4. 'this' keyword represents the current class object.
     
 

- Each Instance variable object is seperate when memory is created. It is stored in heap memory.
  

- Each Static variable objects are stored in one memory.


Dont give permission to the static variables because all objects will be affected if we change the value.

It is not recommanded to allow modifications to the Static variables.


If we use the 'final' keyword in a variable, no modifications are allowed.



Example:
   
class Emp{
//instance variables

int eid;

String ename;

double esal;

public static final String company = "pnc";

public static final String location = "USA";


Emp(int eid,String ename, double esal ){

 // assign the local data in the instance data

 this.eid = eid;
 
 this.ename = ename;
 
 this.esal = esal;
 
}

 void status(){
 

   if(esal > 8000){
   
     System.out.println("Good employee");
    
     System.out.println(eid + " " + ename + " " + esal + " " + Emp.company + " " + Emp.location);
    
   }
   
   else{
   
    System.out.println("Very Good employee");
    
    System.out.println(eid + " " + ename + " " + esal + " " + Emp.company + " " + Emp.location);
    
   }
   
  }
  
  public static void main(String[] args){
  
    Emp e1 = new Emp(4444, "Shubha", 4444.44,"pnc", "USA");
    
    e1.status();
    

    Emp e2 = new Emp(2222, "Sushil", 1295.16, "pnc", "USA");
    e2.status();
  }
  
 } 



*****************************************************************************************************************************************************

Constructor is a special type of method which is used to initialize the data ( it is similar to a method) . It is used to construct something. It is called with the help of “new” keyword while creating object.

You are not able to set values or arguments when you have a default constructor. 



Constructors vs Methods

Whenever the object is created, constructors can only be called once. However, methods can be called multiple times.
 A constructor has no return type like a method.

The compiler will generate a default constructor if we don’t give any constructor. The compiler will not provide a method if we have no methods. 

________________________


Constructors are used to assign values to variables whenever the object is created.

In java, Constructors can not be abstract, final or static. 

Constructors can contain statements. Statements are instructions. 


Default Constructors are invisible. 


“Note: Default constructor provides the default values to the object like 0, null, etc. depending on the type.”


If we want to assign our own values in the constructor, it will be parameterized constructor. 


A constructor can be declared private ( called private constructor).


It is possible to call a constructor from a constructor.

Constructor chaining is when a constructor calls another constructor from the same class.

We can use “this ” keyword to call another constructor. 


When you define a constructor, the default constructor is no longer used.

You can use Constructors to initialize objects.

Ex:

public class ConsDemo {
   public static void main(String args[]) {
      MyClass t1 = new MyClass();
      MyClass t2 = new MyClass();
      System.out.println(t1.num + " " + t2.num);
   }
}


You can not write the same constructors with the same number of arguments and same data types in the same class. The compilation cannot tell the difference between both of them.


A constructor normally initializes but it can also create the object, call a method etc. 

Whenever we make a Constructor private, it cannot be accessible outside of the class.

A Constructor can’t be abstract , static , and final. 


“A constructor can be overloaded but can not be overridden.”

Constructor overloading is when we have 2 or more constructors with the same arguments or the same number of arguments but different data types. 


The compiler will not generate the default constructer if we already have a constructor.

______________________________________________________________________________________

## Connstructor Chaining

Constructor chaining is when a Constructor calls another constructor. There can be any numbers of Constructors in constructor chaining. One constructor can only call one constructor but one method can call several methods.

- this() keyword calls another Constructor. 

this() keyword must be the first statement in a Constructor.

We use 'this' keyword when calling the same class variables, same class methods, and same class constructors.

We use 'super' keyword to call the parent class variables, parent class methods and parent class constructors.

super() keyword must also be the first statement 

Inside the consructor, two 'super()' keywords, two 'this()' keywords, both 'super()' and 'this()' keyword are not allowed. We can only use it one at a time.

If the variable names have different names 'this' and 'super' keyword is not required. If the variable names have same names 'this' and 'super' keyword is required( while using them inside the method).


In inheritance if we do not provide 'this' or 'super' keyword, the compiler will generate the 'super()' keyword automatically. 

**********

There are two types of object - 

1 . Named object

- Named object is an object with the reference variable.

 Ex:

  Test t = new Test();

 2. Nameless object

- Name less object is an object without a reference variable.

  Ex:

  new Test();




